2003-12-16 cairo-0.1.17 Carl Worth <cworth@isi.edu>
===================================================

Better text support
-------------------
This snapshot provides much better text support by implementing the
following four functions:

        cairo_text_extents
        cairo_glyph_extents
        cairo_text_path
        cairo_glyph_path

The text/glyph_extents functions can be used to determine the bounding
box (and advance) for text as if drawn by show_text/glyphs.

The text/glyph_path objects functions place text shapes on the current
path, where they can be subsequently manipulated. For example,
following these functions with cairo_stroke allows outline text to be
drawn. Calling cairo_clip allows clipping to a text-shaped region.

Combined dependencies
---------------------
The cairo core now depends only on the libpixman library. This single
library replaces the three previous libraries libic, libpixregion, and
slim. Thanks to Dave Beckett <dave.beckett@bristol.ac.uk> for all of
the heavy lifting with this renaming effort.

Conditional compilation of backends
-----------------------------------
Cairo now allows optional beckends to be disabled at compile time. The
following options may now be passed to the configure script:

	--disable-xlib
	--disable-ps

Note that the first option is a change from the old --without-x option
which will no longer have any effect.

OS X supported - several byte-order issues resolved
---------------------------------------------------
Cairo has now been successfully compiled under OS X. Testing revealed
that there were some byte-order problems in the PostScript backend and
the PNG generation in the demos. These have now been resolved.

2003-10
=======
Graydon Hoare <graydon@redhat.com> implemented the first real text
support using Freetype/fontconfig, (previous versions of cairo used
Xft and could only draw text when using an X backend).

2003-09
=======
Graydon Hoare <graydon@redhat.com> added the first real support for
running cairo with a non-render-aware X server.

Jamey Sharp <jamey@minilop.net> virtualized the backend font and
surface interfaces in September, 2003.

2003-06
=======
Xr is renamed cairo to avoid confusion since it no longer had a strict
dependence on X.

2003-05
=======
A new image surface backend is added to Xr. Keith Packard
<keithp@keithp.com> wrote the image compositing code in libic that is
used for the image_surface backend. This code was originally written
as the software fallback for the render extension within the X
server.

2002-06
=======
Carl Worth <cworth@isi.edu> wrote the first lines of Xr, after Keith
Packard <keithp@keithp.com> proposed the plan for a stateful drawing
library in C providing a PostScript-like rendering model.
