This is the cairo roadmap.

Everything here is subject to change, but it is hoped that all of it
will be useful. If you want to influence, please feel free to get
involved with cairo (see http://cairographics.org ).

The intent is for this to be a living document. We want both the users
of cairo, (GTK+, GNOME, Mozilla, Mono, etc. etc.) to let us know
features they need and dates by which they are needed so that we can
use those to guide our plans.

Additionally, people who are actively developing cairo itself should
regularly update this document to reflect their current plans. If you
don't want to see a particular release happen without some essential
feature, then put that feature on the list and put your name next to
it to indicate you are working on it.

Targets
=======
GNOME 2.16 (http://live.gnome.org/TwoPointFifteen)
--------------------------------------------------
With cairo 1.2 already part of GTK+ 2.10, we want to make sure that
the cairo used in GNOME 2.16 is as good as possible. The final date
for 2.16 is September 6, 2006 but the deadline of interest to us is
the tarball due date for next beta (2.16.0 Beta 2 -- 2.15.91) which is
August 7, 2006.

Firefox 3.0 - http://www.mozilla.org/projects/firefox/roadmap.html
------------------------------------------------------------------
Firefox 3 (scheduled for early 2007?) is the first release expected to
use cairo for all rendering. In the meantime, development builds using
cairo are available

Satisfying firefox 3 well requiring releasing new versions of cairo
before November 2006 (or earlier) that incorporate the patches coming
from mozilla, (clip querying), and much-improved performance.

Themes and Schedules
====================
cairo-1.2.2 (August 7, 2006): Fix the bad bugs in 1.2.0
 - Fix failure on BGR X servers
 - Fix the disappearing text bugs

cairo-1.4 (October 2006): Better performance
 - New tessellator
 - New rasterization
 - Finer-grained fallbacks for PS/PDF

cairo 1.2.2 plans
=================
 Blocker bugs (For each XXXX, see: https://bugs.freedesktop.org/show_bug.cgi?id=XXXX )
    ✓6617 With cairo 1.0.4 some text just disappears
    ✓7294 cairo doesn't work with a BGR X server visual (assertion ...
    ✓7494 non-antialiased xlib text doesn't appear after first space
    ✓7514 libcairo 1.2.0 much much slower than 1.0.4 on an ssh conn...
    ✓7533 Image fallbacks have incorrect transforms
    ✓7538 PDF backend introduces FreeType dependency
    ✓Truetype subsetting doesn't work on x86_64 (see email: "Cairo 1.2 and pdf text - Help !!")


 Stuff that has been slipped from 1.2.2
 --------------------------------------
     7497 _cairo_color_compute_shorts fails with FPU set to single ...

cairo 1.4.0 ideas (think performance!)
======================================
 Implement framework for performance regression testing

 Investigate "low-hanging fruit" identified by David Turner (write test case for each)

 Look into speeding up pixman gradients

 Look into improving text positioning/placement on ARM (with no hardware floating-point)

 Look into speeding up dashing used for GTK+ focus rectangle

 Look into other GTK+ performance regressions as identified on performance-list

 xlib backend
     Switch to server-side gradients for xlib backend
     Fix X server to make server-side gradients faster
     Switch to using XRenderAddTraps rather than XRenderCompositeTrapezoids

 Implement a non-trapezoid based rasterizer for use with xlib and other backends

 Cull geometry outside clip region bounds

 New tessellator

Unscheduled stuff we'd like to get to at some point
===================================================
 Fairly severe bugs
     6806  cairo 1.0.4 crash progressbar in window
     PDF: minefield shows too-tiny bitmapped fonts in image fallback
     PDF: minefield shows strangely hinted glyph shapes (only without truetype subsetting)
     PDF: minefield has broken selection (only with truetype subsetting code)
     4630  Fonts too large when drawing to image surface while printing
     4863  stroking problems with wide dashed lines

 Fix all expected failures (XFAIL) in the test suite
     a8-mask
     extend-reflect
     filter-nearest-offset
     leaky-dash
     self-intersecting
     text-rotate

 Win32 backend
    ✓1. Incorporate into test suite
     2. Correct output for the entire suite
	 a. self-copy
	 b. trap-clip
	 [There is some mailing-list discussion about possible fixes
	 for these.]

 New API
     cairo_arc_to
	see http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/cairo/2005-August/004801.html
	or see arc_to branch in bedhad's repository

 PS/PDF improvements
     1. Make image fallbacks finer-grained than a whole page
     2. Ensure that PDF text output is "selectable"

 Quartz backend (maintainer needed!)
     1. Mark Quartz backend as supported:
	 a. Incorporate into test suite
	 b. Correct output for the entire suite
